
### Thoughts on synthetic data

Running only the Chars 74K dataset-based images yielded a score of 0.31488. This score is quite low, which can be attributed to a couple of factors: the low number of samples (~1100), and that the images may remain too similar to each other and too different to the test images. More disappointing were the EMNIST-based images, as nearly 10,000 images only gave 0.26570, presumably due to the second factor mentioned above. In particular, it is possible that the test images had a white background, and therefore the addition of the noise to make the images more ‘realistic’ may actually hurt the score in this competition. However, a reasonable conclusion may also be that the artificial data is not a complete substitute for real images. On the other hand, a very large number of images (thousands if needed) can be created in seconds, something that may take days for real data. Fine-tuning of the procedure used to create the images can also of course make them closer to the test data. At a minimum, therefore, the dataset-based method can be used to supplement real data, even if complete substitution may be undesirable.
{: style="text-align: justify"}

I especially put this principle to use for the 7s and 8s. As mentioned in Section 2.3, while the number of images of all the other numerals could be increased by rotation, this was not possible for 7 and 8. I therefore added images generated using the Chars 74K and EMNIST datasets to the training and validation folders for 7 and 8 to increase their numbers. This was also done to a small extent for some of the other numbers to ensure that all the classes had approximately equal samples. Thus, synthetic data has its place, alongside the gathering of real data and data manipulation for augmentation.
{: style="text-align: justify"}
